a 6-ton orcas slaps its tail awesome
destructive
under the water tail slaps are used to
stun the herring
some fish come too quickly and escape
back to the safety of the shore but most
are picked off by the orcas one by one
soon water glitters with fish scales as
the orcas methodically consumed the ball
of fish
by breaking up the herring into a
smaller show the orcas have done the
humpbacks a favor
turning the usual relationship between
the animals on its head
[Music]
everywhere else on earth orcas or the
humpbacks biggest enemy but here the
humpbacks cashier on the colossal fish
supper
[Music]
on the humpbacks aren't the only ones to
gatecrash the August party
massive fin whales that swallow three
thousand herring in a single gulp
[Music]
deadly enemies feed side-by-side
a unique scene only possible here
because of the warmth of the Gulf Stream
on the end of this poll is a highly
directional microphone and put that into
the water we should be able to hear the
sperm whale Andrew Armour has worked
with whales for over 20 years he can
pick out the faintest of cause their
course can travel over 30 miles and
there are several distinct types I do
hear it now have they pointed out this
kind of call is known as coda and sperm
whales use it for communication so this
is almost certainly a group
[Music]
this is my chance to get up close to
these Giants
okay get it now get it now I've joined a
baby and an adult female
female sperm whales live in family
groups up to 20 strong
the rest of this part could well be
hunting far the Loess youngsters can't
dive deep so this babysitter has stayed
at the surface it could be mum an aunt
or even grandma
she's playing with me mirroring my
movements
[Music]
as she dives she swings past my
cameraman
that tail has the force to power a giant
it could easily kill a human yet she
takes care not to hit either of us
it's a remarkable display of agility
[Music]
the whales are just as fascinated with
me as I am with them it's a far cry from
the meetings between our species in the
days of whaling I am absolutely shaking
like a leaf
she brought her calf right alongside us
span over onto her side so that she was
looking directly in my eyes from no more
than a couple of metres away and then
she Pierrot netted like a ballerina and
swept past me but she made so sure that
she didn't hit me
male humpback whales repeat each other's
songs and add to them so they become
ever more complex and beautiful showing
off their memory as well as sheer volume
listening carefully to this song is a
female humpback whale she's here with
last year's calf and is ready to
conceive another one
he stopped singing and follows her he
may sing to her again but not if he
thinks other males are close by they
start to get to know each other it's an
old-fashioned slow motion once
[Music]
such beautiful movement is rarely seen
dance in the animal world is little
understood
[Music]
but they're courting ballet is about to
be cut short rival males have detected
that something is going on they arrive
in force a mob on the dance floor set on
disruption
each male tries to get beside the female
and to intimidate the others
the 35-ton males are set on a fight
animals that can seem so tender in a
moment become so aggressive
the mating game has become a battle
they smash into our they tail slap and
Bella
most of this is just shown throwing
their waiter
it's over the biggest male has won the
abundance of krill attracts other
visitors to the peninsula in the summer
Antarctic minke whales their pointed
heads and short dorsal fins give them
speed and endurance and they need both
there are other whales here too
killers
this is an extended family of mothers
and their young and long male with a
huge dorsal fin almost 2 meters high
[Music]
ellone minke whale
it's just what this group of killer
whales are looking for
working as a team as they have done for
decades they fan out across the street
in search of their quarry
[Music]
and they found it the minke races away
pursued by outriders on each flank
[Music]
terrified the minke heads from the shore
it's so desperate to escape it almost
beaches itself
it makes a desperate break for freedom
[Music]
[Applause]
two hours and 20 miles later the minke
is still alive and swimming strongly
it's only real defense is its endurance
but the killer's work as a team with
fresh ones replacing the outriders in
relays
and as the minke tires the battery and
the biting begins
[Music]
[Applause]
seabirds are attracted by the smell of
fresh blood rising from the water
[Music]
The Killers tried to flip the minke over
if they can manage to keep its blowhole
underwater it will drown
one forces that make his whole body down
below the surface
[Music]
and then the final strike
the team dragged the minke under for the
last time and the hunters finally can
field even when more sea lions arrive
they can't seem to break down the
sardines coordinated defenses
[Music]
with a shoal this big the sea lions need
to isolate a smaller more manageable
group of fish
[Music]
but with so few predators the fish still
have the advantage
[Music]
[Applause]
all the sea lions can do is keep the
sardines at the surface and wait for
others to join them
[Music]
to none
their arrival changes everything
[Music]
[Applause]
tuna attacked from below
cutting off the sardines escape route
down to deeper water
[Applause]
[Music]
next to appear shearwaters excellent
fliers but also surprising the agile
underwater with so many predators
attacking from all sides the advantage
starts to shift away from the sardines
[Music]
[Applause]
as the fish pack ever tighter they're
showing strategy now makes it easier for
the hunters
[Music]
[Applause]
Papa sharks they've scented blood in the
water
[Music]
surprisingly perhaps the Predators never
attack one another they work together to
corral the ball of fish taking turns to
grab a mouthful
[Applause]
common dolphins
as the show gets ever smaller each
sardine scrambles desperately to hide in
the middle but now there's no escape
[Music]
[Applause]
a Buddhist whale finishes off the feast
tons of sardines devoured in less than
an hour